hello my name is dr. Peter Brown I'm a
veterinarian from Chuck nut Valley
veterinary clinic we're located in
Burlington Washington about an hour
north of Seattle today we're gonna talk
about how you can help with your dog's
bronchitis the first step to do if
you're suspicious that your dog has
chronic bronchitis is a visit to the
veterinarian for a diagnosis your
veterinarian not only will listen to
your pets chest and do a full
examination but also will probably take
x-rays to determine if the lungs have
bronchitis in there there's evidence of
that so it is very important that a
diagnosis is made there are many
conditions that can have quite
bronchitis and so a proper diagnosis is
critical for that if the diagnosis is
made of bronchitis your veterinarian may
prescribe some medications to be given
for that we do not recommend you use any
of the over-the-counter human
medications for your pet for this
condition only use products recommended
and prescribed by your veterinarian
there are some things you can do into
your household to help with this one is
limiting access to cigarette smoke it
can be very irritating to their lungs
can be a primary cause of bronchitis but
also can even if that's not the primary
cause can worsen the condition of that
also being aware of things like wood
stoves they can provide a lot of
environmental contamination that can
make it a bit more difficult for them to
breathe in addition to that certain
carpet cleaners that we can use because
of their proximity to the floor floor or
carpet cleaners can make the bronchitis
worst on that so avoiding any of those
toxic or obnoxious fumes for them can
make a big difference
certainly things like humidifier into
their room that they sleep in can be a
benefit for them
and so using some common sense similar
what we do for ourselves and that
mannerism once again my name is Peter
Brown I'm veterinarian from Chuck kind
of value that clinic and today we talked
about bronchitis and things you can do
to help with your pet thank you